What is success? Success can mean different things; for instance, the success of a racehorse is to run fast, and the success of a plane is to fly. Success depends on design and what was meant to be achieved, or the purpose. As a Christian I believe that our purpose is to bring glory and honor to God through the way we live. Success can only be measured by a clear objective. It is impossible to score without a goal. It is crucial to have a plan for your life not because it makes it easier for a person to succeed, but because there is no other way. Everything is part of God’s bigger story and although he may be guiding us, it is our choice to choose the words we want to write. There is not one career goal that allows for people to bring glory to God. Eric Liddell once said, “I believe God made me for a purpose, but he also made me fast. And when I run I feel his pleasure.” Living a life for God does not mean that you must go to seminary and become a pastor. In fact, Jesus was a carpenter for most of his life. There are multiple opportunities no matter what path you may choose. The important thing is to have a plan and focus on achieving the things that are most important in life. In my success plan I intend to become an engineer, be a part of a community and develop relationships, succeed academically to have a greater understanding of important concepts, and build myself personally to become a better person especially with my attitudes. 
My goals for this season of life are to do well in school and to do it for the glory of God. I want to use all the opportunities that are available to me at Liberty to learn, grow, and better myself. I hope to get a degree in Computer Engineering so that I can use the gifts that God has given me to bless others. I hope that this degree will provide me with a challenge and prepare me for the workforce. For my future job, I wish to first gain some technical experience and later use my abilities to help others. I am committed to achieving my goals. The book, Studying Engineering says that it is important to set goals, but it is also important to follow through with them. To strengthen my commitment, I can get involved with faculty as well as classmates to encourage and help me along the process. The benefits of becoming an engineer is that I get to apply your knowledge to the real world and see what you built. I can use my skills to make an impact in the world. I will know that you accomplished something challenging and were diligent at studying.
Imagine if you had a computer that was millions of times faster than the computer that you have now. There would be numerous applications for such a product, from complex optimization problems to machine learning. It is called Quantum Computing. It goes past the typical 1s and 0s of computer science to process information at a much faster rate. These computers exist today, but are very large and expensive. My goal to be able to create quantum computers for the average consumer at a relatively low cost. This goal can be accomplished by gaining the proper education, working at a company doing research, and then developing the product and retailing it.
I am currently working to attain my Bachelor’s degree Engineering, but to gain the competence to work with in such a setting would most likely require that I pursue further education in fields of Math, Physics, and Computer Science. After I graduate with my Bachelor’s degree I will need to find a job or some other way to be able to finance my education. I do not want to go into large amounts of debt. I would start the application process to try to get into the best University possible in order to achieve the best education possible. 
The next step would be to apply and get a job to a company or team that is working on
research for Quantum Computing. There are multiple companies that are working on this project, so I could possibly try to get a job working with one of them. If I am not accepted or I decide that I do not want to work with them I might even start my own company. The main part of this step is researching topics such as quantum physics to allow for the creation of efficient quantum computers. At this point, major breakthroughs may have been made in this field. Even so, this technology will still have a long way to go until its uses are realized in the everyday home. 
The final step would be to successfully design a product that is functional, but not pricey, and manufacturer the product for the everyday consumer to purchase. I would have to get in connect with some manufacturing firm to mass produce this product (possibly just the processor). I would then release my product into the market place at a reasonable price. Average people will have the potential to carry a quantum computer in their pockets. It will allow for greater efficiency and be the catalyst for other new and exciting technologies. 
If I successfully can participate in the creation of such a product I believe it will have
massive benefits to society. My goal to create affordable Quantum Computers to be mass
produced and sold must follow the steps of education, research, and development. Obviously, it will not be my sole work alone, but the work of a large team and the research of all society done throughout all human history.
	Being a champion for Christ means that whatever I may be doing people would be able to see Christ through me. Although there is a code of Ethics that is designed for engineers, doing the right things goes even beyond that. As Christians, we are called to a higher goal of living a life like that of Christ. We may never achieve a life that is without sin, but it is our goal to become a better person and become sanctified through Christ. I aim to be able to be a champion for Christ and to be able to use my skills in the future to directly further his kingdom. I plan to travel to a developing country in the future and using what I have learned to be able to allow for more people to have access to information. I want to help others as well, but first I have to take care of myself before I can remove the splinter from someone else’s eyes. Again you cannot be a champion unless there is a something that has been defined to win.
	A master student also interacts with the teacher during class by asking and answering questions. They also try to talk to professors outside of class time and come to their office hours. For me I do not ask or answer many questions in class although I try to give them by attention. When I see professors I try to say hi, but I don’t usually engage in conversation. I have not really been to my professor’s office hours, usually if I have any questions I try to shoot them an email. I think to become a better student in this area I need to be more active in trying to work more with my professors. I think I can come to their office hours when I have questions and ask more questions in class. Since the last report, I have not made much improvements in this area. I think I have sent more emails, but I think I can do more than just online interaction. Sometimes when I have the chance to talk to my professors I do not know what to talk about. I often try to just figure things out by myself, and blame my confusion on me not studying or paying attention enough. 
A master student knows how to work with other students well and is involved with several group studies. So far most of my classes are not too difficult except for maybe two. For these two classes I have been trying to meet up with other people to group study but it has not been very successful. I will try to be more determined to study in a group setting rather than alone. I must contact my friends more effectively and ensure that the group session will happen. Since the last report, I have talked with different people in my classes and discussed meeting up for group study sessions. There are already group sessions taking place, but some of these are in quite large groups. I have met up a few times for this ENGR 110 class for group projects. Since I am living off campus now it is sometimes difficult for me to get to school, as I also have to ask one of my sisters to drive me. I think that sometimes there is not enough communication about group studying.
A master student is able to communicate affectively thought verbal dialogue. They can have an easy time in conversation and in social situation. I am not a very boisterous person, but I can talk when I need to. I do not tend to ask or answer many questions or participate in lengthy conversation with others on a usual basis. I am going to be more determined to express myself through oral language and talk to others more effectively and frequently. It is not that I have any difficulty speaking, I just don’t prefer to. I will try to talk more with professors as well. I have tried to go out of my way to talk to others and introduce myself and I have been meeting up with other people spending more time with friends. Spending long periods of time in social situation such as at my youth group at church can get kind of overwhelming for me. I end up not wanting to converse with others especially when I have other things I want to be doing.
I have tried to become more involved in extracurricular activities during my time here and I plan to become even more involved. I was part of the solid works class that provided an introduction to 3D modeling using CAD software. I am a part of the Engineers Missions and Research club and I am part of the committee that is working on a water purification project.  I am an active member of a youth group at my church and I am part of the worship team. I am also a table tennis club member. We recently had a tournament at UVA and although we did not win, it was a good experience. I have also attended one of the chess club meetings, but I am not an active member. There are other opportunities that I would like to explore such as the robotics club, cyber security, and SWE (because my sister told me that I should go to the conference). 
I have made an effort to work with others. There are different ethnicities that I work with, because I am a minority. I also have become more active in working with people of the opposite gender as well. I try to build relationships with many people and participate in different projects and group studies. Team work is very important as well as the idea of collaboration. For different group projects specifically in this class the team dynamics have been very good. Our mouse trap car team seems to be doing a good job working together. For this project I am more of a group member and I am able to work with others to do what needs to be done. For both the Arduino lab reports we also had a very good sense of team. I took more of a leadership role for the last two lab reports, and it was effective letting everyone know what needed to be done and when we were going to be meeting up.
Engineering is making tools. It is the act of using the things that have been given to us in nature to solve problems in society. It is the application of science and mathematics in the real world. In other words, Engineers create by using what has already been created. For example, it was the engineer that designed the wheel which is now used by billions of people around the world. Engineers are like the doctors of society. They see the things that are wrong, and find a way to fix it. God was the first engineer since he was the one who created the world. In being an engineer we are in a sense getting closer to God. The role of an engineer is to help other people and take care of the world. This means to use the gift of nature that God has given us, for its intended purpose. The type of engineering that interests me is Computer Engineering. With computers we can do a lot more than we could do on our own. God is calling to somehow use this technology and the gifts he has given me to be an engineer for him and help solve the problems that exist in the world. To be an engineer it is important to have a good understanding of the design process and the different steps that need to be taken in order for something to actually come out of it. 
There are many resources that are available at Liberty in order to best allow for a student to succeed in engineering. I have used different facilities that the school offers such as the makerspace, the atrium, the machine shop, the c-lab, and the library mostly for studying and doing projects. I have met with my advisor two times individually, and once as a group. I have also met with my faculty advisor. I have met with a math tutor and I have been to the undergraduate writing center. I have visited the CASUS office as well. I plan on going to the Career Center to work on my resume when I find the time to do that. Throughout the semester I have become more familiar with the Liberty online system especially with Blackboard and the ASIST page. I plan on using all of these tools so that I will have the highest chance of doing well during my time here at Liberty.
A master student does assignments as soon as possible and does not put them off until later. They work ahead and save time for entertainment for after they have completed their work. I am trying to be a better student in this area. Often, I find myself distracted and not motivated to do my assignments ahead of time. This leads to sometimes having to cram and lose sleep doing assignments. I am going to have a better work ethic and plan my assignment and what I am going to do at each study session. I will try to focus and put away any distractions that I might have. Some productive changes that have worked are paying attention to time (sometimes setting a timer) for certain tasks such as studying to make sure that I know that it is focused time. I have also tried to do some assignments ahead of time. Whenever I have a difficult assignment of a difficult concept that I am trying to understand it is easy for me to get frustrated and discouraged. So it is not a good idea to try to do everything at one time and plan ahead so that there is plenty of time to troubleshoot issues. More recently I have started to make my calendar more clear and listed all the things that I need to do on it. 
A master student is always on top of the topics that were covered in class and spend small amounts of time studying rather than at large chunks. Sometimes I get confused during one of the lectures and then I don’t want to look at the material because it does not make sense to me. I do not spend time studying when I do not think I need to. I will study every day after my classes regardless of whether or not there are any assignments or assessments coming up. I have tried to study more since my last report and read the book as well as look for other sources online that deal with the material. Not studying and cramming for tests has led to unnecessary levels of stress and have probably been less effective than prolonged short study sessions.
A master student takes good notes and reviews them before every class. I try to take notes during class and do the homework assignment, but rarely do I look back at the notes that I took. I also do not write down my notes very well. I will try to take better notes using a better note taking system and look at them before every class.I have not really made many productive changed in this area. I have tried to take better notes, but I still do not look over them. The way that I take notes it just to write down the main things that my professor discusses. I often just sloppily jot things down and doodle on the sides.
	When writing notes, it is also important to have a certain form that you use. For me the form that I use is not the best as it basically includes writing down things as they are presented during class usually categorized by date and topic. A note taking system that is well known is called the Cornell note taking system. This includes dividing up your notebook paper to certain sections with the notes in the top right, the questions on the left, and the summaries on the bottom. There are multiple ways that you take notes, but it important to find the one that is right for you.
 	I think that for the most part I know that the strategies mentioned in the video with Dr. Chew are vital for successful learning, but I am not very effective at implementing them into my studying. Often times I do not spend enough time with the material and wait until the last moment until I begin to study. I take poor notes in class and do not prepare ahead for later. I try to do all the assignments and turn in things on time, but sometimes they are not to the best of my abilities. I often skip recommended homework if I can get away with it as I am overconfident with the myself. I should also come to the point of automaticity and where I have overlearned the material so that I can recall it quickly and effectivity. Another area that I struggle with is interacting with professors and other students such as group study.
When I do study I try to make it as effective as possible. I do the practice problems and see how much I can recall. I also try to read over the material and make sure that I have a good understanding of the concepts. I do not make note cards and try to focus on the overall material and for comprehension of the main ideas. I come to every class and try to be engaged in the class so that I can get the most out of it.
Some ideas that I have for making myself a more effective student it to plan ahead and create a way to organize my assignments and manage my time. I need to spend more time with the material and procrastinate when it comes to studying and completing assignments. I also need to come up with a better way of taking notes. Often times when I take notes in my notebook it is messy and not organized. I might try to take notes on my laptop, but I will try to find an effective way to do this. I should also set up times when I meet up with other students and with my professors. To be successful I need to have a clear goal of how I am going to succeed. I should not be satisfied with just passing the class, but I should also excel at it. 
I have a specific learning style, but I need to able to learn with any learning style to that I can learn no matter who is teaching or in what environment it is in. I included a graph of where I am right now, based on the test that was recommended that we took after class. 
I have become certified with different tools in the Machine Shop. The tools that I have become certified include: the hand/power tools, the laser, and the CNC machine. The first step of the certification was the introduction to the Makerspace/Machine Shop. The next step was to take the individual workshops. I think that these tools can benefit my college degree of computer engineering as it can be used to design different parts of the computer. It can be used for different steps in the manufacturing process as some parts require laser precision for engraving or cutting. There are other benefits to these certifications as well. For one thing, it can be used to recreational purposed to design objects and art. They can also be used for personal projects that I might have that might need something to be cut or drawn on. There is always a benefit to learning how to use new technologies as there are always several different applications that might unexpectedly show up. These machines allow for us to do things that simply cannot be done by ourselves alone and increase our capabilities.
To be successful one of the most important things is to have the right attitude. For me, I need to have perseverance to study and do well. I know that there are some areas that I need to improve on such as being more compassionate to others, and having a better work ethic. There are also areas that I can improve on involving my skills these things include becoming better at programming, being able to work better with others, and having effective learning strategies. The key is to be organized in attaining these goals and taking steps to achieve them.
As an engineering student, there are a lot of responsibilities and tasks that must be done. It is important to manage my health and stress levels so that I can function to the best of my abilities. I need to spend time relaxing, which I think I do a sufficient amount. I also need to be able to get enough rest and maintain a healthy diet. I try to spend time with my family. Since I live at home with them this is not much of a challenge for me. Concerning personal finances my parents have been helping me out, but I also plan on getting a job while here at Liberty. 
	The goals and outlined objectives that I have are meant to provide the best way for me to succeed as an engineer. I plan on becoming a computer engineer and building quantum computers; in the future I may focus more on mission work in developing countries. I intend on becoming more involved in a positive environment and encouraging community to be able to work together to solve problems and to provide support for one another. Academically my goal is to do well, not only in terms of a high GPA, but to understand ideas and concepts and how to apply them as well as being able to take advantage of every opportunity that Liberty University offers to nurture my intellectually. Lastly, I aim to develop myself personally to work to become a better person everyday ranging from attitudes, habits, and general behaviors. Overall my success plan is based around being able to become the person God wants me to become, and to fulfill the future that he has on store for me. 

